# An analysis of the 2015 FIFA Select Committees voting affiliation.
 02805 Social graphs and interactions Fall 22 Final Project.
 
 Project was orignaly coded in [Google colaborator]( https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1gDVJ0vifL26iVpBeF_7fGemMYXmA8eNz?usp=sharing#scrollTo=bPu78aeYAOLL) with the contribution of all members and was later coppied to github as a requirment to assist project working. 
  
This repository showcases the results of our investigation into the 2015 FIFA Select Committee voting affiliation dataset in attached [Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/Sanaullah-nahk/2015_FIFA_Select_Committees/blob/main/FIFANetwork_02805_2022_project.ipynb). We begin by introducing the dataset, describing its size, what it contains, and its relevance. We then give the results of our various analyses of the dataset. Initially, we cleaned the dataset due to an unconventional way of representing the names of the FIFA members. We then created a graph where the FIFA members are the nodes and the edges are their relationships with other members. Relevant statistics are then given, and communities are found using the Louvain community detection algorithm. We then visualized the graph using the ForceAtlas2 algorithm, sized the graph by the degree of each node and coloured each community. The corresponding Wikipedia pages of the FIFA members who had one was then downloaded for analysis. The pages were first cleaned to remove unnecessary text, then they were grouped together by community. A TF-IDF calculation was used in order to find the most common words used in each community, which was subsequently visualized as word-clouds. TF-IDF give us an initial idea about each community, i.e one community has the highest representation of the sports women. and another has maximum game referee. Along with Wikipedia pages, we thought it's also a good idea to analyze general public's views about FIFA members. we decided to extract tweets about members from 2015 and compared them with most recent tweets about same members. 

Finally, sentiment analysis was used in order to gauge the image of the communities. The well known dataset from Johan Bollen\cite{sentiment-dataset} was used to detect the sentiment of the wiki pages of the most famous people in each community, to emphasize some controversial behaviour this dictionary has been manually modified penalizing some words (e.g. 'corruption', 'scandal') and add some specific terms (e.g. 'bribe', 'fined').
The same sentiment analysis was performed on tweets talking about those people in 2015 in order to see how the people felt about those people. Lastly, some recent tweets has been studied to detect if the opinion has been changed in this last 8 years
